like I was saying there's god [__]
damn hi I'm Michael and I get asked a
lot of questions here on YouTube like I
can't tell if you're 12 or 34 years old
not really a question but you know I
also get asked all the time what
programming language should I start out
with first off you're coming to me for
help so starting bad right out of the
gate and I always say the same exact
thing
it does not [__] matter just pick one
and start learning programming and then
they always say well but luckily I heard
that this one better than this one and
this one's better than this thing and
then I always say all modern programming
languages are wildly powerful and they
can do all kinds of [__] so just pick
one and start learning it and then they
always say they still don't believe me
is what I was trying to say but it
honestly does not matter which one you
choose and to prove that it doesn't
matter I want to do something really
cool and complicated with a doodoo
programming language so let's go right
to the bottom of the barrel and use
scratch scratch is a child's programming
language and I'm not just saying that to
be mean it is literally a programming
language built to teach kids the very
basics of computer programming and
because of that it's not designed to do
anything complicated you can pretty much
only do really dumb animations and make
super simple crappy games look at this
it's a website that runs in your browser
and you're not even allowed to write
code for it you have to drag and drop
these pre-written code blocks over here
to make absolutely anything happen so
it's a language that is essentially a
toy and it would be an absolute
ridiculous pain in the ass to try to do
anything even remotely complicated with
well let's use it to fly a drone huh
this is a parrot AR 2 drone it's verbose
it's reliable and it's one of the
cheapest groans I could find on Amazon
and since I'm gonna crash it at least
multiple times trying to figure out the
scratch controls that's kind of all I
care about now we can focus on setting
up communication between scratch and the
drone thankfully scratch lets you build
your own code blocks with JavaScript
which means you can establish a
WebSocket relationship between those
code blocks and a server running on your
computer that was a lot of very
complicated words that I only understood
about half of so all that it's doing is
taking scratch commands and it's sending
them to a server running on my computer
which is just piping those scratch
commands to the drone yeah but actually
that means I have to know JavaScript
right so it's not actually scratch
[__] you I'm trying to control a drone
with a child programming language here
okay well the flight logic all the user
input data and all of the application
state is gonna be managed by scratch
JavaScript is just communication what
I'm gonna do first is actually take the
reverse approach and I'm gonna take data
from the drone and put it into scratch
now this is an absolutely crucial step
because I think it'd be really funny to
have like flight data readouts so like
how high the drone is in inside of a
children's toy because that would be
funny
so let me show you how that looks this
is the fullscreen scratch application
for what I have so far so if I go over
and start it you can actually see the
gauges down here updating in real-time
so if I go up and down it'll change this
little pitch gauge here and a king is
going up and down if I move left and
right it'll change this roll gauge here
depending on how far it moves and you
know you can do a combination of the two
and it all updates in real time okay
that was super boring but just hang in
there guys I promise I swear to you it
stays about the same level of excitement
throughout the entire video okay Gabe
scratch the ability to fully control the
drones so this little scratch cat icon
represents like a top-down view of the
drone and so I can go over here and I
can start it up and it should start to
take off and now I have full access to
all range of motion of the dirt I can go
forward in fact I'm gonna go left and
right and I can go like up in
and I can go other left and right
exactly like surprisingly easy to
control especially considering how
garbage scratch is it's definitely more
intuitive than like the shitty phone app
that is written before
only problem is I've never flown drones
before us I don't really ah but Michael
I hear you ask how are you ever able to
make something so mediocre and boring
and like I mean I don't even know myself
it's crazy I think you just got to get
born like this but for the first time in
history we can use scratch to make
something more interesting all you got
to do is take those controls jam them
into a shitty scratch game and you give
you to Buddy defender 2018 abridge the
the manga the goal of the game is to
make it until the end but every move you
make in the game actually gets sent to
the drone in real life so it's more like
make it to the end of the game without
obliterating your drone
and if you get hit by a laser you lose
control of the drone temporarily okay
okay as you can see there's also where
are they just avoiding the lasers you
have to keep in mind of the drone and
the the game all my [__] charter Oh
as you can see there's these little
symbols like like I was saying there's
God [__] dead why did I make it so
goddamn hard Oh like I was saying
there's these red rectangles that you
can use to get rid of all the [__] there
subscribe buttons Oh would you look at
that that's convenient look if you just
so happen to smack one of those
subscribe buttons it gets rid of all the
lasers now let's get someone who's far
worse at video games to play hey what
you doing sucking dick it fortnight like
usual oh just oh you said something me
about you you want to play a video game
you want to play a real videogame will
you want to play a real videogame this
one's like left and right do you know
anything about how this game works
no that starts the game oh thanks well
thank you thank you so much you want to
give that another try go ahead and give
it another shot okay just give it a nice
good college try alright oh yeah don't
the penis so you lose control if the
penis
oh that's the altitude it's like it goes
up in the air will you want to be better
at this [__] game alright well give
it one more shot give me one more good
shot your best shot
yeah absolutely
oh subscribe kills all the lasers so
don't forget to smash that subscribe
button I drew all of it I drew all of it
okay that's that's enough of that for
now especially since I think well broke
my drone but thankfully this video is
sponsored by honey now what is honey you
already know what honey is because
everyone's already sponsored by them but
in case you missed it honey it's just a
super simple free browser extension that
sits on your computer and tries to save
you money every time you shop online and
it actually only takes two clicks to get
it so you go to join honey calm slash
read so you click on add to Chrome or
whatever browser are you using click up
here add it to your browser you're done
personally I use it for Amazon and a
bunch of cheap Chinese electronic sites
which it works on because it works on
like 30,000 sites because those are the
only sites I really shop that anyway so
now it's just super nice to randomly get
like 10% off here and there speaking of
saving money someone broke my drone so
we're gonna get a new one boom ugh but
what do you need another drone does it
have anything to do with this tweet you
made about building a drone to kill
babies I don't know you're just gonna
have to wait and see now as well get
this one never had a racing drone before
I'll add it to my cart now that I go to
check out honey's gonna pop up and ask
if I want to apply coupons now it's
searching the internet for the best
coupons possible on this purchase I look
at that I say 14 dollars by doing no
work whatsoever honestly what a lot of
people talk about honey they talk about
how it's gonna save you massive amounts
of money which it can but to me
the really cool part about honey is how
little work you have to put in but you
go to work you do a lot of work you get
a lot of reward you sit at home sit on
the couch do nothing get no reward you
install honey you do no work but you get
summer work it's just like a really cool
thing you have to put in zero work and
get something out of it so if you're
interested in just randomly saving money
sometimes honey is completely free you
can go to the link down in the
description or go to join honey comm
slash read so big thanks to honey for
sponsoring this video it really helps
when it comes to making content so I'll
see you guys when I next upload in five
years
[Music]